UIST 2013 Papers

Reviews of submission #313: "Augmented Reality Tools for the Creation of
Physical Visual Arts."

------------------------ Submission 313, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary

Overall Rating

   3  (Borderline: could go either way.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary and Contribution

   This work proposes a picture drawing support system with projected
   information and sensors (e.g., kinect).  

The Combined Personal and Meta Review (Primary)

   The author's motivation on supporting picture drawing on real material
   (paper) with digital information is interesting and usable.  

   I agree that even in the era of table computers, drawing on physical
   surface (paper, canvas, etc.) using real pen, brush, will still have a
   value.  In this sense, the direction of this work is interesting and has
   a value.   

   The author could add more compelling drawing results to explain the
   effectiveness of this method.

Final Decision



------------------------ Submission 313, Review 5 ------------------------

Reviewer:           secondary

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary and Contribution

   Using a projector and camera and a depth camera to support a software
   system that supports various kinds of rotoscoping, with the result being
   real drawing on paper.

The Combined Personal and Meta Review (Secondary)

   It's a fun submission, but it seems to be a grab bag of techniques that
   have already been published in various places elsewhere.  It's hard to
   identify any particular significant advance over the prior work echoed by
   various parts of this work.  Because the techniques are a sort of grab
   bag, I don't see the kind of transformative advance that one would hope
   for when various techniques are brought together into a single system.


------------------------ Submission 313, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary and Contribution

   Describes a setup for a new drawing support system that involves both
   augmented reality and Kinect-enabled motion tracking, and introduces
   three tools that make use of the said setup: 1) projection and
   manipulation of virtual construction lines, 2) application of image
   filters, and 3) shading control using hand position. All three tools are
   fully implemented; the first tool is evaluated in a user study. While the
   setup itself is not necessarily novel, exploring how spatial AR
   technologies can be used to enhance drawing support systems could be a
   viable contribution to UIST. However this particular paper falls short of
   a solid contribution, as I describe below.

The Review (entered before the rebuttal period, and uneditable thereafter)

   This paper describes a set of tools for assisting the creation of
   physical drawings, that uses a combination of augmented reality and
   Kinect-enabled motion tracking. While drawing support tools already have
   a long history in HCI, exploring what new possibilities may open up in
   this domain through introductions of new technologies like Kinect is an
   interesting topic of study, and thus I appreciate the overall direction
   in which the authors are heading here.

   However, at the current state I believe the work to be still premature
   for publication. The three tools proposed by the authors are at best
   incremental improvements over existing techniques, with hardly any
   technical novelty. Projecting construction lines, though I do not dispute
   its usefulness, appears to be merely a variation of existing works that
   also use projection as drawing guides (e.g., Flagg and Rehg, Lee et al.).
   The image processing filters (blur, brighten, edge detection) are pretty
   standard stuff technically speaking, and the authors do not discuss in
   enough detail how this tool meshes into the user's drawing process—the
   tool is not featured in the user evaluation, and looking at Fig.3(f) it
   seems that applying regional filters introduces clutter that may well end
   up distracting users instead of helping them. Changing lighting direction
   using hand position suffers from the same issue; no evaluation, and lack
   of justification for its usefulness in the drawing process. In Fig.5,
   having the user manually choose three different lighting positions seems
   unduly complex (for novices at least)—if obtaining image (d) is the
   goal, can't we just start with a fixed, standard three-point
   (key/fill/back) lighting?

   Overall, I understand the desire of the authors to add more interactivity
   to projection-based drawing support tools and I agree that it is a
   worthwhile goal, but the current set of tools is too undercooked
   (although the implementation is solid, they seem like a random collection
   of scarcely novel techniques) to merit publication at this point. In
   continuing their work, I would recommend that the authors rethink and
   formulate a coherent idea about 1) what exactly is lacking in existing
   drawing support systems from a user's perspective, and 2) how the problem
   might be overcome by incorporating new interactive technologies like
   Kinect. Some of my complaints may stem from the often unclear writing,
   but again proofreading should be the authors' responsibility as well.

   Finally, this might be nitpicking but when I see a paper that describes a
   drawing support system and there's an evaluation section, I expect to see
   the actual drawings produced by the subjects. What better way to convince
   readers of the advantage of the system?

Additional review comments (entered after the start of rebuttal period)



------------------------ Submission 313, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary and Contribution

   This paper presents an extension of a spatial AR system proposed in [12],
   here complemented additional virtual creation tools and a user study. The
   original concept of [14] was the usage of projected digital technology to
   enhance and facilitate physical drawing. As [12] was focusing on
   presenting 3D viewpoint of a 3D scene this work complements this approach
   with virtual guidelines (perspective, vanishing points), digital
   post-processing filter (2D, NPR) for the projected virtual content.

The Review (entered before the rebuttal period, and uneditable thereafter)

   The paper is well written and easy to read. 

   Bibliography is adequate. Complimentary related work to cite:
   Paper Interface Design for Classroom Orchestration, Cuendet Sébastien,
   Quentin Bonnard, Frédéric Kaplan, Pierre Dillenbourg; CHI, Vancouver,
   BC, Canada, May 7-12, 2011
   =>similar system, exploring the usage of virtual construction lines for
   non artistic application.

   Hark-Joon Kim, Hayoung Kim, Seungho Chae, Jonghoon Seo, and Tack-Don Han.
   2013. AR pen and hand gestures: a new tool for pen drawings. In CHI '13
   Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA '13).
   ACM, New York, NY, USA, 943-948.
   =>Similar concept as [14] using a different hardware system (mobile
   solution). Propose also different virtual tools and mixed reality tools
   for drawings.
   Please note that the paper was certainly not available to the authors at
   the time of this submission (only recently been available on scholar
   digital library).

   Seok-Hyung Bae, Ravin Balakrishnan, Karan Singh. (2009).
   EverybodyLovesSketch: 3D sketching for a broader audience. Proceedings of
   UIST 2009 – the ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and
   Technology. p. 59-68.
   ⇨	a non AR system but a digital approach considering both perspective
   issues with vanishing point and grid reference. This paper also presents
   a quite insightful user study on digital drawing with their system,
   inspiring for this work.

    As stated above, this paper doesn’t introduce any new concept or new
   system but only extension of their previous system with additional tools.
    The description of the system is therefore only here for helping
   understanding of the concept (including navigation of the 3D drawing). 

   The presented tools are mainly digital tools that can modify the
   representation of the virtual content.  Authors don’t discuss or
   approach tools that will be more focus on interacting on the physical
   content or in a sense with “mixed content” (a hybrid physical/virtual
   drawing). For example Kim et al., CHI 2013, proposes to capture physical
   content with their system, copy/paste, which is not available in this
   system. 
   The tools are of two types: guiding tools and pictorial editing tools.
   The guiding tool only focuses on basic drawing virtual lines, adding
   vanishing points or a guide. It would have been great to combines this
   guiding tools with virtual drawing: for example authors can have modify
   vanishing points of a virtual drawing to help to create other perspective
   of a drawing ().
   Similarly I’m not sure why a digital tablet was used in complimentary
   of the system and users are not able to “virtually” draw on the main
   paper area. This approach partition the control space while digital pen
   such as Livescribe or similar pen technology can be directly on the
   physical paper. I also wonder about the keypad being replaced by
   something more physical, transient tools (keypad was highly used in the
   user study). For examples, additional gestures, virtual button on the
   drawing areas or voice command can provide a better solution. A good
   inspirational model is probably the Cintiq tablet which combine pen, hand
   touch and physical control on the tablet, removing the need of any
   additional input device. 

   Regarding the editing tools, they are pretty standard features, and of
   limited interest from a conceptual (additional features) or technical
   viewpoint (no novel algorithmic, straightforward implementation). 

   I think the paper missed to pursue further on concept from [14] such as
   the notion of mixed reality drawing and how physical and virtual can
   intersect or complement each other. Here, we only see how “virtual
   tools” can support physical drawings, albeit the virtual tools are just
   a pure replication of existing desktop implementation (no modification or
   consideration of physical surface here).  Looking further on new type of
   virtual tools, which can be developed specifically for physical drawing,
   would have been a more relevant contribution.

   Regarding the user study: 
   Authors should have use statistical testing for analysis of all their
   results (not only drawing completion time).
   Using also the same testing environment between BO and P group would have
   been relevant (was the drawing area also an A4 page for the BO group?).
   Reporting SD would have also been useful. Authors should also precise if
   the use a 7-point Likert scale, what is the correspondence of the value
   (1 is strongly agree?).
   Reporting for both groups easiness and amusement results would have been
   useful (here only one value is reported).
   Easiness was rated rather high for BO compared to P condition: authors
   should explain.
   Results in term of completion time are to be expected: providing
   localized visual guidance can help increase efficiency, as this
   projection don’t induce any visual conflict or clutter on the creation
   area. 
   Which statistical test was used for completion time analysis? 
   In Figure 7c), I couldn’t clearly see the physical drawing. 
   Figure 7 exhibits an interesting element for the P condition: drawing
   scale used by the participants varies significantly.  Was this similar in
   the BO condition?
   It would have been also relevant to report any observations during the
   tasks for both groups and more information about the behavior with such a
   system. This topic is briefly touch on the discussion of the projection
   zone scale but information such as: body position, pen holding,
   observations of the scenes, number of time people rotated the physical
   drawing area, effect of grid usage and grid scale, etc. See for example
   Bae et al. 2009 as an example of a more thorough evaluation.
   A discussion would have also been relevant as well as some design
   guidelines for the development of similar system. 

   In summary, the paper is interesting, inspiring on some minor aspects,
   but doesn’t bring a significant contribution to the field. Concept of
   augmented physical drawing with 2D/3D content was already presented
   previously, the current system didn't evolve strongly in term of design
   (additional input devices should have been removed, system form factor
   should have been improved). Implemented additional "virtual" techniques
   are straightforward (guidelines, image processing, NPR rendering), and
   don’t innovate in term of mixed reality drawing or spatial AR drawing
   (secondary tools, engineering features more than innovative research
   techniques). 
   The user study lacks more rigor in its analysis, and as a full UIST
   submission more metrics, observations can have reported, analyzed or
   discussed. 


   Edit:
   In Drawing results: “mu” should be replaced by equivalent character.
   If authors privilege the usage of a Greek notation for measured
   variables, SD should be replaced by sigma.

   Figure 7 and Figure 8 should be re-numbered.

Additional review comments (entered after the start of rebuttal period)



------------------------ Submission 313, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

   3  (Borderline: could go either way.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary and Contribution

   The authors contribute a projection augmented reality system to help
   users draw without having to physically draw construction lines. By
   digitally projecting the construction lines, artists can combine the
   tangibility of paper without spending the time to create the required
   lines. The system also supports image analysis and shading tracing. 

The Review (entered before the rebuttal period, and uneditable thereafter)

   I really enjoyed reading this paper. The ideas presented for helping
   artists were interesting and your results show that the system worked.
   The video was also helpful in demonstrating the concept. 

   The system explores a new range of interactions for aiding artists in
   drawing on physical paper. Most of the technical components of the system
   itself have been implemented previously in one form or another, so the
   system itself is not the primary contribution, it's more focused on new
   interactions. 

   The user study is the other primary contribution which shows that the
   system was usable and that it did not impact the drawing capabilities.
   Though, the user study also shows that more users found the book
   condition easier to use. Perhaps this isn't statistically significant, as
   I don't see it reported. The authors just showed that both were found to
   be easy and did not do a direct statistical comparison. You give some
   reasons as to why that might be (small area of projection), etc. It would
   have been nice to ask the participants directly about their thoughts of
   the system to better contextualize some of the bottlenecks encountered
   during the task. Some anecdotal evidence could be helpful here if you
   have it. 

   Regardless, this paper has some useful insights for supporting
   interactions that combine projection and drawing which could be useful to
   the community.  

   What does the statement, "It was mixed with the displayed size of
   construction lines" on p6 mean?

   This paper could really benefit from an editing pass, to help formalize
   grammar, sentence structure, etc. 

Additional review comments (entered after the start of rebuttal period)




